README file for NIMBASE:  Version 3_5_1  2/07/20

The nimbase program allows a user to change the finite element basis
functions.  The degree of polynomials may be increased or decreased,
and functions may be changed from Lagrange polynomials (uniform node
distribution) to Gauss-Lobatto-Legendre polynomials.  Note that new
coefficients are based on evaluations of the original data.  In
particular, if the new poly_degree is greater than or equal to the
old, the mapping from logical to physical coordinates is unchanged
except for round-off.  [The lower-order mapping is a member of the
space of functions defined by the new basis.]  The same is true for
all 'equilibrium' data.  This has two implications:

1) converting to higher- or equal-order bases and then converting back
reproduces the original data except for round-off.

2) converting to a higher-order basis is not equivalent to generating
the higher-order data from nimset, since the physical locations of the
nodes are determined by the original data (with lower-order bases).
Evolution from the converted data will lead to a higher-order solution
(for the lower-order mapping and equilibrium data), however.

There is an option to read an extra dump file (assumed to have the
same mesh and poly_degree as the new data) for comparison with the new
data.  Maximum discrepancies of the comparison with the new data are
written to the nimbase.out file.

***Use caution if you want to change the node distribution (uniform to
gll or vice versa).  Your nimlib, nimrod, and nimplot will also have
to be built with new node distribution set in nimlib (see poly_mod in
polynomials.f); otherwise your results will be garbage.***


  CRS, 6/9/05

  nimuw3_4_9

  The makefile has been updated for the new code organization.

  CRS, 9/9/15

  nimuw3_5_1

  These changes add the nimcomb program that allows a user to read
a nimrod dump file and add the perturbed fields from another dump
file.  It was developed for the vblock_from344 branch in early 2019
and is being committed into the nimuw trunk, first.

  CRS, 2/07/20
